# /thoughts/inifity/

I have been thinking a lot about the concept of inifinity lately, and encountering lots of problems related to infinity when thinking about various concepts. In this article I will talk about some of these encounters.

The first such instance was when watching a video by Aarvoll, entitled [Metaphysics of the Perennial Philosophy: 1. Order and Chaos](https://youtu.be/nUH6wlVM3sM), where he brings forwars the idea of <q>a problem in the concept of the infinite</q>:

>If by finite we mean any kind of limitation whatsoever, then we can't say that the number line is infinite, because it alhought it is unending in its only infinte within the dimenstion that it has to operate with — the natural number  — it is still finite insofar as, you are not going to have a “pig”, like a pig is not one of the numbers. So you don't have the pig, therefore it is not infinite because there is a limitation in that the numbers don't include pigs.

René Guénon actually wrote a chapter in his book <q>The Metaphysical Principles of the Infinitesimal Calculus</q> about this problem entitled <q>Infinite and Indefinite</q> where he resolves this “problem with the infinite” by introducing the concept of the indefinite. He describes the infinte as being completly unbounded, that which has no limits, i.e God. Furthermore there can only be _one_ Infinite, for supposedly distinct infinites would limit and therefore inevitably exlucde one another. Infinity used in any other sense as that what we just mentioned is then actually indefinite. The Scholastics had the similar concept of <q>infinitum absolutum</q> (<q>he absolute infinite</q>) and <q>infinitum secundum quid</q> (<q>the infinite in a certain respect</q>). René Guénon explains the concept of the Infinite, the finite, and the indefinite and their respective origin as follows:

>The finite necessarily presupposes the Infinite — since the latter is that which comprehends and envelops all possibilities — the indefinite on the contrary proceeds from the finite, of which it is in reality only a development and to which it is consequently always reducible, for it is obvious that whatever process one might apply, one cannot derive from the finite either anything more or anything other than that which was already potentially contained therein. To take again the example of the sequence of numbers, we can say that this sequence, with all the indefinitude it implies, is given to us by the law of formation, since it is from this very law that its indefinitude immediately resuts; now this law consists in the following, that given any number, one can form the next by adding a unit. The sequence of numbers is therefore formed by successive additions of the unit to itself, indefinitly repeated, which is basically only the indefinite extension of the process of formation for any arithmetical sum; and here one can see quite clearly how the indefinite is formed starting from the finite.

Aarvoll goes on stating:

>When we are discussing the term, we are asking this, [the infinite], apply to the universe? And if it odes apply, there are all sorts of contradictions that we're gonna run into immediately; one of them being, “can the infinite be finite?”... No, clearly that violates the law of identity. But then you are saying “the infinite is limited to the metalogical laws.”
